(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.) Welcome to episode two of the Crandeb Test
Podcast.
I'm your host Crandeb, and today is Tuesday,
March 11th, 2025.
And here's a passage from Connecticut Yankee in
King Arthur's Court by Mark Twain.
A word of explanation.
It was in Warwick Castle that I came
across the curious stranger who I am going
to talk about.
He attracted me by three things, his candid
simplicity, his marvelous familiarity with ancient armor, and
the restfulness of his company, for he did
all the talking.
We fell together, as modest people will, in
the tale of the herd that was being
shown through, and he at once began to
say things which interested me.
As he talked along, softly, pleasantly, flowingly, he
seemed to drift away imperceptibly out of this
world and time, and into some remote era
and old forgotten country.
And so he gradually wove such a spell
about me that I seemed to move among
the specters and shadows and dust and mold
of a gray antiquity, holding speech with a
relic of it.
Exactly as I would speak of my nearest
personal friends or enemies, or my most familiar
neighbors, he spoke of Sir Belvedere, Sir Bordeganus,
Sir Lancelot of the Lake, Sir Galahad, and
all the other great names of the table
round, and how old, old, unspeakably old, and
faded, and dry, and musty, and ancient, he
came to look as he went on.
Presently he turned to me and said, just
as one might speak of the weather, or
any other common matter, you know about transmigration
of souls, do you know about transposition of
epochs and bodies?
I said I had not heard of it.
He was so little interested, just as when
people speak of the weather, that he did
not notice whether I made him any answer
or not.
There was half a moment of silence, immediately
interrupted by the droning voice of the salaried
Cicerone.
Ancient Halberk, date of the 6th century, time
of King Arthur and the Round Table, said
to have belonged to the knight Sir Sagrimore
Le Desiris.
Observe the round hole through the chain mail
in the left breast.
Can't be accounted for, supposed to have been
done with a bullet since invention of firearms,
perhaps maliciously by Cromwell's soldiers.
My acquaintance smiled, not a modern smile, but
one that must have gone out of general
use many, many centuries ago, and muttered apparently
to himself, wit ye well, I saw it
done.
Then, after a pause, added, I did it
myself.
By the time I had recovered from the
electric surprise of his remark, he was gone.
All that evening, I sat by my fire
at the Warwick Arms, steeped in a dream
of the olden time, while the rain beat
upon the windows, and the wind roared about
the eaves and corners.
From time to time I dipped into old
Sir Thomas Mallory's enchanting book, and fed at
its rich feast of prodigies and adventures, breathed
in the fragrance of its obsolete names, and
dreamed again.
Midnight, being come at length, I read another
tale for a nightcap, this which here follows
to wit.
That's a passage from A Connecticut Yankee in
King Arthur's Court by Mark Twain.
Thank you, and we hope to see you
again.